Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, I have come with the
question: Is praying for peace and liberation in accordance with the true
Dharma? Hello, I see that
our temple still performs prayers for peace and liberation, which
brings many benefits. However, recently
I've noticed that some monks, some of whom are quite famous,
and some of my friends who practice Theravada Buddhism, say that
praying for peace and liberation is superstition and not part
of Buddhism. I've explained it many times,
but my friends don't accept it. I'm afraid I ca
n't explain it thoroughly. I beg you, please
answer so I can tell my friends about it.
I thank you for your guidance. Is there such a thing as
praying for peace in Buddhism?
The
Buddha was the one with the greatest desire for peace. Praying means wishing for peace, for tranquility, for freedom from illness, aging, and death, for happiness. It was this desire for peace that led Prince Siddhartha to leave the palace to
find a path and method of
practice to achieve peace and
liberation from the suffering of birth and death. He found
that path, the Four Noble Truths.
That path revealed
suffering and its causes.  The suffering here is
the place of peace and joy, Nirvana, the place of absolute happiness where there is
no more suffering, and the path to
that absolute place is the Noble Eightfold Path.
Isn't it true that the Buddha had the
greatest desire for peace, the greatest desire for peace?
Then this desire for peace must be found in
Buddhism. Where else can Buddhism satisfy
the greatest desire for peace and tranquility for
all beings? That is the desire for peace found in
Buddhism. Next, the desire for peace is to
lessen suffering, while the previous desire for peace was to end
suffering. The desire for peace to end suffering is to abandon
all craving and attachment, to cease craving and
attachment, and then to attain the joy of Nirvana. To
attain the happiness and joy of
Nirvana, not to return to the cycle of birth and death, that is Great
Peace and Bliss. But how do we lessen suffering?
Buddhists must
live according to the Five Precepts, and then we will lessen
suffering. That is learning according to the Five Precepts to lessen suffering, but it is
not yet Great Peace and Bliss. We
attain peace and tranquility through karma; we abandon
evil deeds and do good deeds. So, isn't it
true that Buddhists should only practice and
study if they seek peace and tranquility?  What we do is pray for peace,
not for anything else. Therefore, in
Buddhism, it's called "Right Intention," meaning we intentionally
seek peace and tranquility by adhering
to the principle of cause and effect, abandoning evil, doing good, practicing, observing precepts, and
making offerings. So
when we go to the temple to pray for peace,
we are already there, we have made offerings, listened to the
Dharma, and observed the
precepts. This will eliminate karmic obstacles and bring
us peace. As for "praying for liberation," the
Vietnamese term refers to the
realms of the deceased, but officially, "
liberation" simply means leaving. Praying for liberation means
hoping to leave one place and go to another, that is, to
leave suffering and find
happiness. There's no difference; they're essentially the
same. So today, let's look
at the Mahayana sutra for praying for liberation.
We have many sutras for liberation.
Firstly, the Ullambana Sutra teaches
us how to make offerings. Secondly, the
Medicine Buddha Sutra teaches us to fast, observe precepts, make offerings,
release animals, print and distribute
scriptures and audio/video recordings for 49 days, and to sincerely repent.
So, that's so
I can pray for my own peace, right? And as
for prayers for the deceased, it talks a lot about the realms of
hungry ghosts and spirits in the Sutras of the Ullambana
and Ksitigarbha. Today, I'm
coming with an original sutra, also from the Pali Canon, the
Southern Buddhist Canon, Volume 2, translated by
Venerable Thich Minh Chau and published by the
Religious Publishing House. The story of the hungry ghosts outside the
wall, page 29,
recounts a master's account: "While
residing in
Gaha Rajagriha, 92 eons ago, there was a
city called
Kipu. King
Giena reigned there. There was a chief queen,
Prince Shima Phusa, who attained
supreme enlightenment, becoming the
18th ancient Buddha after the Buddha Nirvana."
This story dates back to the time of that Buddha. At that time,
King Isena became arrogant, thinking, "
Because my prince was born and became a
Buddha, achieving enlightenment, only
I have the Buddha, only I have the Dharma,
only I have the Sangha—that is, because the
prince attained Buddhahood." The
king thought this way because the prince had attained Buddhahood. Therefore, the king's three
royal disciples...  The Buddha was
born of a different mother. He thought, "Indeed,
all Buddhas are born for the benefit of all beings in the
world, not for any
one person alone. Now, my father doesn't give
others the opportunity to
serve the Buddha and the Sangha. Let's
employ a
strategy: the king will not allow the
other princes to make offerings, only he will have the opportunity to make
offerings." He then
caused trouble in the border region.
Upon hearing of the disturbance, the king dispatched the
three princes to pacify the border. The three
obeyed, and upon their return, the king was
pleased and granted them a wish,
asking them to choose something. The princes said, "We
wish to
serve the Buddha." The king refused, saying, "Choose
something else." The princes replied, "We
do not care about anything." The king then said, "Very
well, the princes have the right to
choose as they wish." This meant
the king would not allow the princes
to make offerings to the Buddha. At
that point, the princes refused and
begged to be allowed to make offerings to the Buddha.  When the offerings were made,
the king reluctantly agreed. Later, after
the time of this Buddha had passed, the
Buddha Gotama was born into the world. Three
princes and one person from the celestial realm were
reborn in the kingdom of Magadha, into a Brahmin
family. After
leaving worldly life, the three became
ascetics with braided hair, residing on Mount Gyatsa. The
former governor of that province
became King Vimalakirti. The
royal treasurer, the son of the king, became a
wealthy man, and the head of the
clan,
named Hamina. The common people were
reborn as courtiers of the king.
That is, from that time until the time of the Buddha
Shakyamuni. At that time, the Buddha
Gotama was born into the world. After seven weeks of
enlightenment, he went to Varanasi and turned the Wheel of Dharma.
He taught the three ascetics with braided hair.
After he had begun teaching the five
ascetics and accepted thousands of disciples,
he went to Gyatsa and established King
Vimalakirti in the first stage of enlightenment, along with
more than ten thousand Brahmins.  The monks and lay followers in the land of
Ung Gia and
Magala. However, the hungry ghosts surrounding the
king's palace thought, "Now the king is finally getting to the
heart of the matter." The hungry ghosts
around the palace area thought, "
Now the king will perform a sacrificial ceremony
for us to receive blessings."
While the king was performing the ceremony,
he thought, "I don't know where the Buddha is now."
Therefore, the king did not dedicate
the merit to anyone because the hungry ghosts did not
receive any offerings. They were disappointed and
cried out mournfully every night in the
palace. That is, the king performed a
sacrificial ceremony but did not know where the Buddha was,
so they did not know where to
dedicate the merit. This is the practice of
dedication for liberation. One day, the
king, frightened, reported to the Buddha about
what had happened and asked, "Venerable Buddha,
have you ever heard such a sound? I am
worried and don't know what is happening to
me because this hungry ghost is crying so mournfully." The
Buddha replied, "Your
Majesty, please do not be afraid. Nothing unusual
will happen to you, and prosperity
will come to you."  Now, it is
true that the King's relatives have been
reborn as hungry ghosts. For a
lifetime, they have wandered everywhere,
hoping only for this one wish: that the King would make an offering
to the Buddha and dedicate the merit
to them. Yesterday, when the King offered the
offering, he did not dedicate the merit,
so they lost all hope and
cried out, meaning that although they made an offering, they did
not dedicate it. The King asked, "
Then how can they
receive the offering?" The Buddha replied, "Your Majesty, they can indeed receive it." The
King said, "Venerable Lord,
then please accept
my request. Tomorrow I will
dedicate the merit of that offering to them." After that, the
King ordered the preparation of a
generous offering and announced the time. The Venerable Lord then came to the royal
palace. The
hungry ghosts also came, thinking, "Today
we will enjoy something." Then they stood
outside the walls and fences. After that, the
Venerable Lord made each hungry ghost appear in
the form of the King. The Venerable Lord has the
power to dedicate the merit to them while the King offered water to wash them,
with
these words, hoping for the merit.  This is for
our relatives and the entire community, remember that when
we perform the merit-dedication ritual, lotus
ponds full of lotuses and water lilies immediately appear for the hungry ghosts to
bathe and drink water from, thus
alleviating their suffering. Because of their
misfortune, toil, and thirst, they
become golden in color. The king offers offerings of
porridge, rice, and various kinds of food, both hard and
soft, dedicating the merit of the offerings to
them. In an instant,
other foods appear for them, even
heavenly food, making them
joyful and happy.
Therefore, let's share our bowls and offerings,
dedicating the merit to our ancestors and all the
spirits from many
lifetimes who are connected to us, whether
friends, relatives,
spouses, or children. Let's dedicate it all. The king
then offers clothing and beds to the monastery, and we dedicate the merit of those offerings
to building temples.
After doing all that, the
celestial beings immediately appear, wearing heavenly robes, in heavenly palaces, on beds, coverings,
and jewelry. The Buddha
decided to make all
this wonderful happiness manifest before the
king.  Seeing this, the king was extremely pleased. Then,
after the Buddha had finished his meal
and was requested to tell the story of the hungry ghosts
outside the wall, he recounted the merits of
those standing outside the wall,
those standing outside the
crossroads, those standing
outside the window. Even though they had returned home to their
homeland, even with an abundance of food of all
kinds, hard and soft, laid out, no
one needed them because of the karma they had
created. That is, even if a lot was prepared,
they would
not be able to enjoy it. Those compassionate and loving people, at
the right time, brought the
most delicious food and offerings to their
relatives with prayers, wishing that
this offering would be for their loved ones, hoping that their relatives would
receive blessings. And when offering food and drink, one always wishes for their relatives to enjoy this blessing. May
the spirits of
their relatives gather here, enjoying the
abundant food. May they have long lives,
thanks to the
Buddha.  We are grateful for the kindness and respect
shown to us by those who give, ensuring they receive their
share. That is, when they receive, they
vow to support us in the afterlife. There is
no farming, no
raising animals, no trading like here,
and no exchanging goods for gold. That is,
in their world, there is no
labor, no farming, no raising animals,
no trading like in our realm. In the
afterlife, they rely on offerings to sustain themselves,
like water flowing down from the mountains to
nourish the hungry ghosts. That is, we always make
offerings to nourish the hungry ghosts,
our relatives and loved ones, just
as all the rivers flow down to
fill the ocean. What we
give from here sustains the deceased, our relatives and
loved ones who
have helped us. We hope
everyone will share with the hungry ghosts, remembering their
past actions. Because crying, grieving, or
lamenting is of no use or
benefit to the deceased. When relatives
maintain that habit of weeping and begging, it is of
no benefit to the deceased.
All offerings are made to dedicate merit to
them, but these offerings are skillfully presented
to the Sangha, bringing peace and
lasting benefit to the deceased, both now and in the future. This
is the duty of relatives to respect the departed
souls. By offering to the Sangha, they gain
more strength and perform immeasurable merit.
The sutra clearly states that by offering
to the Sangha, who are
those who are practicing to seek
liberation and then bring the Dharma of liberation to save sentient beings, the departed
souls find peace and liberation.
When the Dharma is completed,
eighty-four thousand people attain the Dharma eye
through this insight. Starting from the event of
rebirth into the realm of hungry
ghosts, their hearts are filled with emotion and praise, and
they strive even harder. The next day, the
Buddha taught the gods and humans the
sutra outside that wall. Therefore, throughout the seven
days, all seven people attained the Dharma eye as described
above. Don't we see happiness? When
we make offerings to the ceremony for the deceased at the
temple, we have the ceremony of the devotee making offerings
to the Sangha, after which the Sangha partakes in the meal and dedicates the merit.
In
those offerings, the Sangha recites...  The monks and
Buddhists at Ba Vang Pagoda explain the teachings to
the deceased so that they can attain
liberation. This is to show the general public
that all the Mahayana scriptures, the
original scriptures in the
Pali Canon and the Nira Canon, all speak of this. The
monks and Buddhists at Ba Vang Pagoda have
practiced and clearly seen the liberation
of the deceased. When the deceased are
liberated, their families also receive peace and
security. In the Dhammapada, the Buddha
also taught that those who are harmed by karma or
evil beings should practice the precepts. This
practice means observing vegetarianism, keeping the precepts, giving alms, and dedicating
blessings. This is
called Buddhism; it involves seeking liberation
and peace. The seeking of peace and liberation
originates from Buddhism. Liberation from the suffering of
birth and death is about peace and freedom from suffering. This is the precept for lay
Buddhists, and it helps the deceased and their
relatives attain liberation through
gratitude and the right Dharma. The
benefit of the offering is the
liberation of the deceased; this is the true
practice of the Dharma with our fellow Buddhists, with both study
and practice.  Don't think that just because you
hear about it, you're done thinking and then saying there's
no practice. We
are clearly practicing what we've
read and heard, and we believe everything we've
practiced. We also hope that
our fellow practitioners can bring the Light of
Buddhist Dharma so that we have absolute faith
in the falsehoods that there are no
spirits or ghosts, that this scripture is a fabricated scripture about
spirits and ghosts, and that it's from Brahmanism. In
reality, the
Buddha is very wise. The shaman who
performs the rituals for spirits does
n't let them possess people. But Buddhists
don't know that. The Buddha is the teacher of
gods and humans, so people solve their
suffering with wrong views. We solve it
with right views, bringing happiness to
ourselves and happiness to the spirits.
Those who practice the Dharma will
benefit. So Buddhism is
completely about seeking peace and liberation, is
n't that right? People who live also
seek peace, that's why they become monks. If they don't seek peace for themselves,
who would become a monk?  Therefore,
Buddhism is a religion for seeking peace and liberation. The
Buddha attained peace and tranquility, and the holy
monks also attained peace and tranquility.
We are people seeking peace and
practicing the Dharma for peace for ourselves. I am
also telling everyone so that they
know how to practice peace and
tranquility according to the Buddha's true teachings. It involves
cultivation, listening to the Dharma, correcting one's mind, observing
precepts, making offerings, and doing good deeds – that is
the method for achieving peace and tranquility.
[music]